# IAGS---Intelligent-Ambulance-Guidance-Service

Objective : Assist ambulances in reaching their destinations in a much more time effective manner through coordinated effort with the traffic police . 

Current Problem : One of the critical problems that the world faces with increased population and rapid growth in the number of vehicles, is traffic congestion. In countries such as India, the rate of road expansion is just one-third the vehicular growth rate. Improvement in the quality of life along with substandard public transportation has resulted in spiraling growth of private automobiles, thus resulting in increase in traffic congestion. Traffic congestion is also growing due to large red-light delays. These light delays are hard coded in the traffic signals and not actually dependent on the intensity of the traffic. This poses a grave threat to patients in ambulances which often get stuck at the traffic signals. In many cases, this has resulted in the death of the patient. Therefore the need for simulating and optimizing traffic control to ensure maximum efficiency for an ambulance is the need of the hour.

Solution : In emergency condition, each and every second is important in saving a human’s life. The vision of this app is to use the given time efficiently to save the person’s life. It will do this by monitoring the route of ambulances towards their destinations and alerting traffic police officers along the route to control traffic accordingly. The assistant doctor in the ambulance will alert the traffic officers on their route for the same, through the app. The app will also allow traffic police to suggest other possible routes in case the existing route is not viable i.e. there is too much traffic or there is a roadblock. This will ensure that ambulances are able to transfer the patients to the hospital while reducing time wasted in traffic jams and possibly help safeguard the patient’s life.
